In any field of inquiry, the beginner is more likely than the expert to make important discoveries. Also most scientific discoveries happen in the early ages of scientists. Give arguments supporting or against the fact.

In most of fields of inquiry, discoveries originate through efforts of experts. A thorough knowledge and experience is essential for making an important discovery. Thus, I totally disagree with speaker's statement that the beginner is more successful in inventing major discoveries than the expert.
 
First, we will consider what is the difference between an expert and the novice. For becoming expert everyone has to pass through the phase of a beginner. While working in research field, the beginner faces some successes and failure. Gathering experiences from past experiments, gradually, beginner turns to an expert in that field. The tyro will make new discoveries later in his life. Most of the times discoveries are the outcome of empirical results. Thus, only having theoretical knowledge would not lead to become adept in field of inquiry, but, experience must be accompanied with it to make important discoveries.

Furthermore, we can see many examples of great scientists like Einstein, Newton. They worked hard for accomplishment of their discoveries. At start they were also neophytes. It was the experience that taught them how to improve their result and finally, led him to get great discoveries. Wright brothers invented the airplane. This happened early in their career too. First they studied the principle behind glider and prepared their own glider attached with engine, which finally converted into airplane. But as a novice, they have to face failure many times but eventually experience fill up their deficiency and they got success in their discovery. There are other examples too. Graham Bell was born in 1847. His first invention was done at a young age. Graham Bell invented Telephone in 1876.

Admittedly, in some fields of science, like archeology experience does not matter much. In such fields one has to discover by searching fossils, artifacts by digging in some archeological sites. Thus in such fields beginners can discover many new things. But it is undeniable that knowledge of an expert archeologist is much advanced than a neophyte in that field. Galileo died in 1642 at an age of 78. He liked working in his old age. He designed a pendulum clock around 1640. In most cases experience is important.

In sum, as per my opinion, one can make important discoveries if he is expert in that field. A novice can become an expert by performing experiments to gain significant knowledge. Thus, I think experience plays quite an important role in becoming an expert in any field.


